Update 06.know-your-problem.md (#258)
Benjamin-Lee/deep-rules: content/06.know-your-problem.md

## Tip 4: Know your data and your question {#know-your-problem}

Having a well defined scientific question and a clear analysis plan is crucial for carrying out a successful deep learning project.
Just like it would be inadvisable to set foot in a laboratory and begin experiments without having a defined endpoint, a deep learning project should not be undertaken without defined goals.
Foremost, it is important to assess if a dataset exists that can answer the biological question of interest using a deep learning-based approach.
If so, obtaining this data (and associated metadata), and reviewing the study protocol, should be pursued as early on in the project as possible.

> This can help to ensure that data is as expected, and can prevent the wasted time and effort that occur when issues are discovered later on in the analytic process.

Reviewer: No need for the comma:

```suggestion
This can help to ensure that data is as expected and can prevent the wasted time and effort that occur when issues are discovered later on in the analytic process.
```

For example, a publication or resource might purportedly offer an appropriate dataset that is found to be inadequate upon aquisition.
The data may be unstructured when it is supposed to be structured, crucial metadata such as sample stratification might be missing, or the usable sample size may be different than expected.
Any of these data issues might limit a researcher's ability to use DL to address the biological question at hand, or might otherwise require adjustment before DL can be used.
Data collection should also be carefully documented, or a data collection protocol should be created and specified in the project documentation.

> Information about the resources used, downloaded dates, and dataset versions will help to minimize operational confusion, and will increase transparency and reproducibility during publication and beyond.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Information about the resources used, downloaded dates, and dataset versions will help to minimize operational confusion and will increase transparency and reproducibility during publication and beyond.
```

Author: I'd suggest to keep this comma - there are just SO many "and"s

Reviewer 2: I think this sentence just needs to be fundamentally revised. I agree there are too many ands.

Reviewer: I love how the syntax highlighter shows all the "and"s. How about:

```suggestion
Information about the resources used, download dates, and dataset versions are critical to preserve.
Doing so will help to minimize operational confusion and will increase the reproducibility of the analysis.
```

Once the dataset is obtained, it is important to learn why and how the data were collected before beginnig analysis.
The standardized metadata that exist in many fields can help with this (for example, see [@doi:10.1038/ng1201-365]), but if at all possible, seek out a subject matter expert who has experience with the type of data you are using.

> Doing so will minimize guesswork, and is likely to increase the success rate of a deep learning project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Doing so will minimize guesswork and is likely to increase the success rate of a deep learning project.
```

Other study design considerations that should not be overlooked include knowing whether a study involves biological or technical replicates or both.
For example, the existence in a dataset of samples collected from the same individuals at different time points can have signficant effects on analyses that make assumptions about sample size and independence (_i.e._ non-independence can lower the effective sample size).
Another potential issue is the existence of systematic biases, which can be induced by confounding variables and can lead to artifacts or so-called "batch effects."
As a consequence, models may learn to rely on the correlations that these systematic biases underpin, even though they are irrelevant to the scientific context of the study.
This can lead to misguided predictions and misleading conclusions [@doi:10.1038/nrg2825].
As described in [Tip 1](#concepts), unsupervised learning and other exploratory analyses can help to identify such biases in these datasets prior to applying a deep learning model.

> In general, deep learning has an increased tendency towards overfitting (i.e. perform well on the training data but not generalize well) compared to classical methods. This is often a result of the large number of parameters being estimated in a DL model, and has direct implications for the importance of working with adequate sample sizes (see [Tip 7](#overfitting)).

Reviewer: There needs to be a line break here between the sentences, assuming you don't remove them.

> For a large dataset, overfitting may not be a concern, but the modeling power of deep learning may lead to more spurious correlations, and thus incorrect interpretations or conclusions (see [Tip 9](#interpretation)).

Reviewer: Should we delete these lines? There doesn't seem to be a strong reason for them to be here and not in the overfitting tip

Author: The only reason I can think of to potentially keep them is the value of context and repetition for the less familiar reader. In that sense, it may increase accessibility and be a bit more "digestible". Otherwise, I agree with @Benjamin-Lee .

Reviewer 2: There are quite a few tips with these cross references. As I'm reading I do find them a bit odd for this type for a manuscript that is not _that_ long. I'd probably remove them throughout, unless someone has a strong case for keeping them.

Reviewer: I don't have a strong case to keep them. The only reason I can think to hold onto them is to make sure that the reader knows that the topic being discussed will be more fully discussed elsewhere. @cgreene is right that it is a bit strange to have links in a paper of this length. I think having fig 1 be a list of the tips will ensure that the reader knows what's going to come. Raised in #266
